Red, White, and Blue Cherry Cheesecake Macarons are the perfect dessert for a Memorial Day or Fourth of July party!  The colors are so fun and festive, and perfectly patriotic.  And you’ll love the combination of sweet almond, tangy cream cheese, and fresh summer cherries!  


Red, White, & Blue Cherry Cheesecake Macarons
Prep Time
1 hr
Cook Time
10 mins
Drying Time:
45 mins
Total Time
1 hr 55 mins

Red, White, and Blue Cherry Cheesecake Macarons are the perfect dessert for a Memorial Day or Fourth of July party! The colors are so fun and festive, and perfectly patriotic. And you'll love the combination of sweet almond, tangy cream cheese, and fresh summer cherries!

Course: Dessert
Cuisine: French
Keyword: Cheesecake, cherry, fourth of July, French, macarons, patriotic, red white & blue, red white and blue
Servings: 30 30 sandwich cookies (approx.)
Calories: 115 kcal
Ingredients
For the shells

    120 grams egg whites (from about 4 large eggs)
    170 grams almond meal (also called "almond flour")
    200 grams powdered sugar
    1/8 teaspoon kosher salt
    1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar
    70 grams granulated sugar
    red gel paste food coloring
    royal blue gel paste food coloring
    violet gel paste food coloring
    edible star glitter (for garnish)

For the filling

    6 ounces cream cheese, softened but cool
    5 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened but cool
    1/2 cup powdered sugar
    1 teaspoon lemon juice
    1/2 teaspoon almond extract
    1/8 teaspoon kosher salt
    15 fresh cherries, pitted and halved (approx.)

US Customary - Metric
Instructions
To make the shells:

    Set the egg whites aside to come to room temperature.  
    Measure the almond meal, powdered sugar, and salt into the bowl of a food processor.  Process the mixture finely, then sift, discarding any large bits.  
    Using a kitchen scale to measure accurately, divide the mixture equally between two small bowls, and set aside.
    Measure the granulated sugar in a small bowl.  
    Add the cream of tartar to the whites, and mix on medium-high speed, using the whip attachment.  
    When the whites hold soft peaks, start adding the granulated sugar, very slowly, while continuing to whip.  
    When all the granulated sugar has been incorporated, continue to whip until stiff.  
    Using a kitchen scale to measure accurately, divide the meringue equally between two medium mixing bowls.  
    Tint one bowl of meringue with red gel paste food coloring, and the other with equal parts royal blue gel paste food coloring and violet gel paste food coloring.
    Add half the almond meal mixture to the red meringue, and fold together until the batter drops from the spatula in a long ribbon.  
    Transfer to a piping bag fitted with a large round tip, and pipe 1 1/2-inch diameter rounds onto parchment-lined baking sheets.  
    Repeat with the blue meringue.  
    Sprinkle edible star glitter on the tops of the freshly piped blue macarons.  
    Allow to dry for 45-60 minutes, or until thin, dry membrane forms on the surface.
    Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F, and bake the macarons (one sheet at a time) until set (approximately 10-15 minutes).  Do not brown.  
    Allow to cool on the baking sheet, then carefully peel from the parchment and sandwich with filling.

To make the filling:

    Place the cream cheese and butter in a medium mixing bowl and beat together on medium speed until smooth and well incorporated.  
    Stir in the powdered sugar, lemon juice, almond extract, and salt, then increase the speed to medium-high and whip until fluffy.
    Spoon or pipe about 2 teaspoons of the cream cheese mixture onto half the macaron shells.  
    Press a halved cherry in the center, then top with the remaining shells.